Hello, in this video for E145, Technology Entrepreneurship, I'd like to offer some summary of what I think are the most important points from the course, And some final career advice for all of you. So many of you might be asking, after this course is over, what are the next steps that I should take? If you're a student here at Stanford, there are a number of other courses in entrepreneurship that you might look into. These include Tina Seelig's class on creativity and improvisation, The boardroom class that Clint Korver teachers, Global Entrepreneurial Marketing by Tom Kosnik. If you're going to become a Masters student, then you have a number of other options open to you. 大家好，在E145科技创业的这节课中，我会来总结一下我认为这门课最重要的一些知识点，还有一些对你们职业规划的建议。可能你们中很多人在这门课结束的时候都会问，我接下来应该做什么？如果你是斯坦福的一个学生，有很多其他的和创业相关的课程你可以去研究，包括：Tina Seelig的创造力和即兴创作；Clint Korver的董事会相关课程，Tom Kosnik的全球创业市场。如果你要申请研究生院，你还有更多选择。

Technology Venture Formation 273. Or also, E245, the Lean [inaudible], Lean Launch Pad with Steve Blank. The online students can also take the lean launchpad class with Steve Blanc, where he goes into much more detail on customer development, and the lean startup process. There are also a number of incubator programs that you might think about applying to. Many of these have expressed interest in getting students from U145 to apply to the program. So these could include Y Combinator, Angelpad, TechStars, Highland Summer Program, so on and so forth. There's also the Mayfield Fellowes program for the Stanford students. So this is a highly selective program, but it goes over three-fourths with a startup internship in the summer. And is a really great way to get a wonderful network here in Silicon Valley, and, and with other Stanford alumni. There's also a number of student groups and activities you, you can get involved with. Bases Stardex incubator program getting involved with coaching on call. There are many other resources that I'm happy to connect you with here at Stanford as you think about the next steps in your entrepreneurial education and also with your start up ventures. 
科技创业公司的形成273，或者E245，Steve Blank的精益创业公司启动手册。线上的同学们也可以上Steve Blanc的线上课程。在他的这门课里，他讲了很多如何开发客户以及精益创业公司整个过程的很多细节。还有很多孵化项目你们可以考虑申请。这些项目中很多表达了他们对E145这门课学生的兴趣，包括：Y Combinator，Angelpad，TechStars，Highland Summer Program，等等。对于斯坦福的学生还有Mayfield的奖学金项目，这是一个挑选严格的项目，但是它可以有超过四分之三的暑假跟一个初创企业做实习，这是一个难得的在硅谷建立人脉的机会，并且能认识斯坦福的一些校友。还有很多学生活动和社团你可以参与其中，Bases Stardex孵化项目有随叫随到的辅导。还有很多其他的资源我可以帮助你们联系，这都会帮助你们下一步的创业课程的学习以及考虑自己的创业公司。
Your final assignment for the class, which I'd like for both the Stanford students and the online students to do, and, and then upload somewhere, where, we can all see if you're comfortable sharing them, is to write your own personal business plan. So you can think of this as, kind of, the business plan for your career. And we can apply many of the same aspects that we've been thinking about to this. So this is gonna be fifteen percent of your grade for the Stanford students. So you wanna have one section for the vision or the opportunity. You want to think about what are your goals after you leave Stanford what are your values what is your mission going to be, list your three questions that might guide your choices. 
这门课最后的作业，是给所有斯坦福和线上的学生的，你可以把他上传到网上，任何让你觉得可以分享的网站，这个作业就是写出你的商业计划书。你可以把这个想象成你未来职业规划的商业计划书。我们可以把很多我们思考过的东西运用到其中。对斯坦福的学生来说，这将占到你最终成绩的15%。你应该去想当你离开斯坦福的时候你的目标是什么？你的价值和你的使命又将是什么？列出这三个问题指导你的选择。
Or think about what you love, what you fear. There are a number of ways that you could structure this section to think about what opportunity are you pursuing? Or what's the vision over the course of the next, let's say, three to five years of your career. Or if you can't look that far ahead, just look ahead the next one to two, to three years. You can also think about your market, or your implementation strategy, Your commercialization strategy, so to speak. So you can think about your market positioning statement. This might be a hypothetical employer, an industry that you wanna get into. A particular organization, or somewhere in the world that you wanna move to. What compelling value do you offer, either to employees or to society at large? And how are you going to differentiate yourself from other Stanford students? What are your key strengths or weaknesses? 或者想一想你喜欢什么，你害怕什么。有很多种方法你可以构建起你的片段的想法，到底哪些机会是你想要追逐的？或者，这门课让你看到你未来三到五年内的远景规划是什么？或者如果你看不了那么远，只看未来一年，两年或者三年。你可以想一想你的市场，或者你的执行策略，你的资本策略，或者说，你可以想想你的市场定位方案。这可能是一个假定的顾客，或者一个你想要进入的行业，一个具体的组织，或者世界上任何一个你想要移居的地方。你会提供怎样的价值，给雇员或者整个社会？你自己和其他的斯坦福的学生有什么不一样？你的核心优势和弱点分别是什么？

Now, I want to talk to you about weaknesses. You might think about risks and how you might mitigate those risks. As there, as, as certain set of milestones or checkpoints that you want to lay out in your future, And how will you measure or determine if you've met those milestones? Are there some external factors that might come into play, that you might think about mitigating those sources of risk? Or is there an additional piece to your education that you want to fill in next? You can also think about your personal board of directors. Is there a set of mentors and advisors who are really important to you. Perhaps think of three key people who you would want to get to advise or mentor you in this next stage of your career. They might be dead or alive, world or family leaders, friends or strangers. But I would encourage you to pick people who you might actually reach out to and who might actually serve as a mentor to you in your career over this next stage. 现在，我想要谈谈弱点。你要考虑风险以及如何降低它。你应该设置一些未来的里程碑，作为测量自己的里程碑，并且下定决心达到那。还有没有其他外界因素会出现，使你的风险降低？或者未来你有没有想继续弥补的你教育背景上缺少的一些部分。你也应该想想你个人的董事会，哪些人或者导师，他们的建议对你至关重要？或者想出三个人，他们的建议对你下一个阶段的事业规划有很大的影响。他们可能在世或者不在了，是世界级的领袖或是你的家庭中的领导者，朋友或者是陌生人。但是我建议你找那些你可以接触到的人，并且可以在你事业的下一个阶段成为你的导师的人。

So please send this to the, course assistants and myself. And please also send us your proposed equity split in terms of the group projects for the class. So if you feel that you've pulled most of the weight in your venture, or you feel that you have a teammate that's pulled a lot of weight. Think about how you would split the equity in terms of percentages across your teammates. And please send that to us as well. So some final career advice I'd encourage you to think very carefully about how you invest your time your energy and your talent over the next few years especially at the beginning of your new career, this is extremely crucial. So you might wanna think about each career move. Is this a bond, a stock, an option? Working for a large company might look more like a bond where it's kinda steady and stable versus joining a start up might be more like an equity or, or an option. But I, I think how you should really think about this is, try to maximize your learning early on in your career. Even if this particular venture, or this particular organization doesn't work well, you want to maximize how much you're learning early on so that you can take advantage of that later on. That doesn't necessarily mean furthering your formal education, but when you're thinking about joining a work team, a start-up or a large company, is this a set of people that I want to add to my network, and is this a set of people who I am really excited about learning from. 所以请把这个发给课程助教或者我本人，也请你提出你们的团队项目的股权分配并发给我们。如果你觉得你为这个公司贡献了大多数，或者你的队友贡献了大多数，想一想如何分配不同队友间的贡献。请把这个也发给我。最后给你们的职业建议是，你们要非常认真地思考，在未来的几年内，特别是你职业生涯的初期，你要把时间，精力和才华花在哪，这非常非常重要！你应该想起出每一次的职业变动，是债券，股票，一个选择？在一个大公司工作看起来更像是债券般的稳定，而在一个创业公司看起来更像股票或者自由选择。但是我认为你真正应该去想的是，在你职场生涯的早期最大化你的知识储备，即使这个公司或者组织运营情况不佳，你也应该抓住机会最大程度地学习，为你后面的路铺垫。这不一定像在学校那样接受正式的教育，但是当你在一个工作的团队中时，不管是一个大公司还是一个初创企业，这些人是我以后想要加入我的人脉网的吗？这些人是不是让我每天都在学习？

Don't be afraid to take calculated risks early it's much easier to try out something risky and fail early on in your career than later. And so, often some of the opportunities where you can learn the most, often appear to be the riskiest in the beginning. And so we've talked a bit about entrepreneurial thinking during this course. And I think one key aspect of entrepreneurial thinking is coming to see problems as potential sources of opportunity, And the bigger the problem, the bigger the opportunity. We've also talked some about the balancing point of determination and flexibility, Of being, the importance of being inner disciplinary. Of, you know, thinking of solving problems and that involves, to some extent, being flexible and changing direction. But also to a certain extent, requires persistence and determination of a certain goal that you have in mind. I'd encourage you to follow your bliss, as they say. Blaze your own path. There's a great video called The Hero's Journey by Joseph Campbell that I think is a great template for thinking about this. 不要害怕在你的事业开始的初期去冒一些适当的风险，这些尝试在你的事业早期比晚期要好得多。你会从一些机会中学到很多，这些机会在最初的时候看起来是很有风险的。我们在这门课上谈到了创业者精神，我认为创业者精神的一个重要方面就是把问题看成是一种机会。问题越大，机会就越大。我们也谈到了在专注和灵活变通之间的平衡，在一个领域专注和解决问题时需要的灵活度以及及时改变方向的机敏。但是更大程度上，你需要有坚持和决心才能达成你心中的目标。我希望你更随自己的决心，像他们说得那样，让你的心引领你的路。有一段很棒的视频Joseph Cambell的英雄之路，我觉得这是思考这个问题很好的模版。

But it's much easier to learn a lot and do a lot of work when this is something that you really feel passionate about and you feel this is your cause. Finally, remember there are no limits to what you can do. Many of our limits, as we talked about in the brainstorming session, are self-imposed. So don't be afraid to set goals that are extremely ambitious, extremely lofty. Go after big problems. The world needs bright, ambitious people who are going after the most important problems in society. Fi-, a quote from Ralph Walter Emerson. Also remember that life is about the journey. Not just about some destination or some end point that you wanna get to. So try and enjoy the journey along the way as well. Even though there are gonna be difficult points and hard points to get through. And so in, in my own path I think a large part of it started out from the study of the broad experience that I had in India where I stayed with a village family that was having severe drought and was down to eating just one meal per day. This inspired me to go back to Duke and find a technology for drought resistant corn which could help solve this problem. 当你渴望并且有足够的热情去做一件事的时候，你会更愉快地学习和工作，因为你会感觉到这是你应该走的路。最后，记住不要给自己设限。我们给自己设置的很多限制，像我们在头脑风暴那节课中讲到的，都是自己给自己设置的。所以不要觉得自己的目标太过远大，高不可攀。跟随那些问题，这个世界需要光明，有远大目标的人，只有那些人才会去找到社会中的问题（并去解决），这是Ralph Walter的一句话。你也要记住，生活是一场旅行，不要总想着你的终点在哪或者你要到什么地方，也要随时享受路上的风景。即使有时你会遇到并且经历困难。在我的人生道路中，到印度游学的经历是我人生中很多事情的起点，我呆在印度的一个小村庄，那个地方极度干旱，并且一天只吃一顿饭。这引发了我回到Duke找到一种抗旱玉米的技术来解决这个问题的想法。

And that's what got me started initially in entrepreneurship. So now that I've gone through that experience in a few other start-ups, I really want to try and teach you, as future entrepreneurs and help improve your chances of success. And hopefully I've imparted through this course some of my experience and some of the frameworks and ways that you can think about entrepreneurship that will enable you all to become more successful in your ventures. And that's what really excites me. If I can have an impact on at least some of you of increasing your chances of success, you might go on and teach other people those things. 
这就是我最初的创业想法的由来。现在我已经有很多的创业经历了，我很想帮助你们这些未来的创业者提高成功的机会。我希望我可以通过这门课传授一些我的经验以及一些方法让你思考到底什么是创业，这些能使你们在事业上更成功。这是让我们非常兴奋的事情。如果我会对你们其中的一些人有一点帮助，帮你们提高了创业成功的可能，并且你也能继续把这些东西教授给别人，这就是最让我兴奋的。
Is And then the network effects would just expand beyond that. We can see this kind of thing in the case of Silicon Valley. How one startup then led to spinoffs that created the next set of, firms in Silicon Valley, and created the next set of semiconductor companies. And many of these can be traced back to the success of, Fairchild's semiconductor. And clearly the networks have become important so I'd encourage you to keep in touch with your classmates. Keep in touch with me and hopefully we can help one another, not just in this class but going forward as well. And I'd like to play one short clip from a speech that I find extremely inspiring that Steve Jobs gave here at Stanford University during one of the commencement addresses. [sound]. Thank you. I'm, Honor to be with you today for your commencement from one of the finest Universities in the world. [laugh], [sound]. Truth be told. I never graduated from college and this is the closest I have ever gotten to a college graduation. Today, I want to tell you three stories from my life, that's it. No big deal, just three stories. The first story is about connecting the dots. I dropped out of Reed College after the first six months, but then stayed around as a drop-in for another eighteen months or so before I really quit. 
然后，网络的效应就会逐渐扩大。我们会通过硅谷的例子看到这一点。一个创业公司怎样引出续集（意指下一个创业公司）然后接二连三的硅谷创业企业和一系列的硅谷半导体公司。所有这些都可以追溯到Fairchild的半导体公司的成功。很明显，这个网络很重要，所以我希望你们和你的同学保持联系，和我保持联系，希望有一天我们会互相帮忙。不仅是在这节课上，而是接下来都这样。下面我会放一段非常有启发性的Steve Jobs在斯坦福大学毕业典礼上的演讲。谢谢，我很荣幸今天在这为全世界最好的大学之一的毕业典礼做演讲。说实话，我从来没有大学毕业，今天是我离大学毕业典礼最近的时刻，今天我想给你讲我人生中的三个故事。没有什么大事，只是我人生中的三个小故事。第一个故事是关于如何串起生命中的点点滴滴。我在Reed大学读了六个月之后就退学了,但之后作为旁听生又混了十八个月以后才真正离开。 

So why'd I drop out? It started before I was born. My biological mother was a young, unwed graduate student and she decided to put me up for adoption. She felt very strongly that I should be adopted by college graduates. So everything was all set for me to be adopted at birth by a lawyer and his wife. Except that when I popped out, they'd decided at the last minute that they really wanted a girl. So my parents who were on a waiting list got a call in the middle of the night asking we've got an unexpected baby boy. Do you want him? They said of course. My biological mother found out later that my mother had never graduated from college and that my father had never graduated from high school. She refused to sign the final adoption papers. She only relented a few months later, when my parents promised that I would go to college. This was the start in my life And seventeen years later I did go to college. But I naively chose a college that was almost as expensive at Stanford. 我为什么要退学呢？我的亲生母亲是一个年轻的、没有结婚的大学毕业生。她决定让别人收养我, 但她觉得我一定要被大学毕业生收养。所以她安排好了我出生时将被一个律师和他的妻子所收养。但是她没有料到,当我出生之后, 律师夫妇突然决定他们想要一个女孩。所以我的生养父母（他们在待选名单上）突然在半夜接到了一个电话:"我们现在这儿有一个不小心生出来的男婴,你们想要他吗？"他们回答道: "当然！"但是我亲生母亲随后发现，我的养母从来没有上过大学,我的养父 甚至从没有读过高中。她拒绝签署收养合同。只是在几个月以后,我的父母答应她一定要让我上大学,那个时候她才软化同意。在十七岁那年,我真的上了大学。但是我很愚蠢的选择了一个几乎和你们斯坦福大学一样贵的学校, 


[laugh] And all of my working class parents' savings were being spent on my college tuition. After six months, I couldn't see the value in it. I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life and no idea how college was going to help me figure it out. And here I was, spending all of the money my parents had saved their entire life. So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out okay. It was pretty scary at the time, but looking back it was one of the best decisions I ever made. [laugh]. The minute I dropped out, I could stop taking the required classes that didn't interest me and begin dropping in on the ones that looked far more interesting. It wasn't all romantic, I didn't have a dorm room so I slept on the floor in friends rooms. I returned coke bottles for the five cents deposits to buy food with. And would walk the seven miles across town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the Hare Krishna temple, I loved it. And much of what I stumbled into, by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later on. Let me give you one example. Reed College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy instruction in the country. 
我父母是蓝领阶层，他们几乎把所有积蓄都花在了我的学费上面。在六个月后, 我已经看不到其中的价值所在。我不知道我真正想要做什么,我也不知道大学能怎样帮助我找到答案。但是在这里，我几乎花光了我父母这一辈子的 全部积蓄。所以我决定要退学,我觉得这是个正确的决定。不能否认,我当时确实非常的害怕, 但是现在回头看看,那的确是我这一生中最棒的一个决定。在我做出退学决定的那一刻, 我终于可以不必去读那些令我提不起丝毫兴趣的课，并可以开始去修那些看起来有点意思的课程。但是这并不是那么罗曼蒂克。我失去了我的宿舍,所以我只能在朋友房间的地板上睡觉,我去捡可以换5美分的可乐罐，仅仅为了填饱肚子, 在星期天的晚上,我需要走七英里的路程，穿过城市到Hare Krishna神庙,只是为了能吃上好饭——这个星期唯一一顿好一点的饭，我喜欢那里的饭菜。我跟着我的直觉和好奇心走, 遇到的很多东西,此后被证明是无价之宝。让我给你们举一个例子吧：Reed大学在那时提供也许是全美最好的美术字课程。


Throughout the campus, every poster, every label on every draw was beautifully hand calligraphed. Because I had dropped out and didn't have to take the normal classes, I decided to take a calligraphy course to learn how to do this. I learned about serif and sans serif typefaces, about varying the amount of space between different letter combinations, about what makes great typography great. It was beautiful, historical. Artistically subtle in a way that science can't capture, and I found it fascinating. 在这个大学里面的每个海报, 每个抽屉的标签上面全都是漂亮的美术字。因为我退学了, 不必去上正规的课程, 所以我决定去参加这个课程，去学学怎样写出漂亮的美术字。我学到了san serif 和serif字体, 我学会了怎么样在不同的字母组合之中改变空白间距, 还有怎么样才能作出最棒的印刷式样。那种美好、历史感和艺术精妙，是科学永远不能捕捉到的, 我发现那实在是太迷人了。 
None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life. But ten years later, when we were designing the first Macintosh computer, it all came back to me. And we designed it all into the Mac. It was the first computer with beautiful typography. If I had never dropped in on that single course in college, the Mac would have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts. And since Windows just copied the Mac, it's likely that no personal computer would have them. [laugh] [sound] If I had never dropped out, I would never have dropped in on that calligraphy class. 当时看起来这些东西在我的生命中好像都没有什么实际应用的可能。但是十年之后,当我们在设计第一台Macintosh电脑的时候,就不是那样了。我把当时我学的那些东西全都设计进了Mac。那是第一台使用了漂亮的印刷字体的电脑。如果我当时没有退学, 就不会有机会去参加这个我感兴趣的美术字课程, Mac就不会有这么多丰富的字体以及赏心悦目的字体间距。因为Windows只是抄袭了Mac，所以现在个人电脑就不会有现在这么美妙的字型了。如果我当时没有退学，那我就永远不可能走进那节书法课的课堂。 
And personal computers might not have the wonderful typography that they do. Of course, it was impossible to connect the dots looking forward when I was in college. But it was very, very clear looking backwards ten years later. Again, you can't connect the dots looking forward, you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something, your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. Because believing that the dots will connect down the road, will give you the confidence to follow your heart, even when it leads you off the well worn path and that will make all the difference. 

个人电脑也就不可能有这么美妙的字形。当然我在大学的时候，还不可能把从前的点点滴滴串连起来,但是当我十年后回顾这一切的时候,真的豁然开朗了。再次说明的是,你在向未来展望的时候不可能将这些片断串连起来，你只能在回顾的时候串起他们。所以你必须相信这些片断会在你未来的某一天串连起来，你必须要相信某些东西：你的勇气、目的、生命、因缘......这个过程从来没有令我失望,只是让我的生命更加地与众不同。


My second story is about love and loss.
我的第二个故事是关于爱和失去。

I was lucky — I found what I loved to do early in life. Woz and I started Apple in my parents garage when I was 20. We worked hard, and in 10 years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2 billion company with over 4000 employees. We had just released our finest creation — the Macintosh — a year earlier, and I had just turned 30. And then I got fired. How can you get fired from a company you started? Well, as Apple grew we hired someone who I thought was very talented to run the company with me, and for the first year or so things went well. But then our visions of the future began to diverge and eventually we had a falling out. When we did, our Board of Directors sided with him. So at 30 I was out. And very publicly out. What had been the focus of my entire adult life was gone, and it was devastating.

我非常幸运, 因为我在很早的时候就找到了我钟爱的东西。Woz和我在二十岁的时候就在父母的车库里面开创了苹果公司。我们工作得很努力, 十年之后, 这个公司从那两个车库中的穷小子发展到了超过四千名的雇员、价值超过二十亿的大公司。在公司成立的第九年,我们刚刚发布了最好的产品,那就是Macintosh。我也快要到三十岁了。在那一年, 我被炒了鱿鱼。你怎么可能被你自己创立的公司炒了鱿鱼呢? 嗯,在苹果快速成长的时候，我们雇用了一个很有天分的家伙和我一起管理这个公司, 在最初的几年,公司运转的很好。但是后来我们对未来的看法发生了分歧, 最终我们吵了起来。当争吵得不可开交的时候, 董事会站在了他的那一边。所以在三十岁的时候, 我被炒了。在这么多人目光下我被炒了。在而立之年，我生命的全部支柱离自己远去,这真是毁灭性的打击。 
　　 
I really didn't know what to do for a few months. I felt that I had let the previous generation of entrepreneurs down - that I had dropped the baton as it was being passed to me. I met with David Packard and Bob Noyce and tried to apologize for screwing up so badly. I was a very public failure, and I even thought about running away from the valley. But something slowly began to dawn on me — I still loved what I did. The turn of events at Apple had not changed that one bit. I had been rejected, but I was still in love. And so I decided to start over.

在最初的几个月里，我真是不知道该做些什么。我觉得我令上一代的创业家们很失望，我把他们交给我的接力棒弄丢了。我和创办惠普的David Pack、创办Intel的Bob Noyce见面，并试图向他们道歉。我把事情弄得糟糕透顶了。但是我渐渐发现了曙光, 我仍然热爱我从事的这些东西。苹果公司发生的这些事情丝毫的没有改变这些, 一点也没有。我被驱逐了,但是我仍然钟爱我所做的事情。所以我决定从头再来。 

I didn't see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me. The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything. It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life.
我当时没有觉察, 但是事后证明, 从苹果公司被炒是我这辈子发生的最棒的事情。因为，作为一个成功者的负重感被作为一个创业者的轻松感觉所重新代替, 没有比这更确定的事情了。这让我觉得如此自由, 进入了我生命中最有创造力的一个阶段。 

During the next five years, I started a company named NeXT, another company named Pixar, and fell in love with an amazing woman who would become my wife. Pixar went on to create the worlds first computer animated feature film, Toy Story, and is now the most successful animation studio in the world. In a remarkable turn of events, Apple bought NeXT, I returned to Apple, and the technology we developed at NeXT is at the heart of Apple's current renaissance. And Laurene and I have a wonderful family together.
在接下来的五年里, 我创立了一个名叫NeXT的公司, 还有一个叫Pixar的公司, 然后和一个后来成为我妻子的优雅女人相识。Pixar 制作了世界上第一个电脑动画电影——"玩具总动员",Pixar现在也是世界上最成功的电脑制作工作室。在后来的一系列运作中,Apple收购了NeXT, 然后我又回到了Apple公司。我们在NeXT发展的技术在Apple的今天的复兴之中发挥了关键的作用。而且，我还和Laurence 一起建立了一个幸福完美的家庭。 

I'm pretty sure none of this would have happened if I hadn't been fired from Apple. It was awful tasting medicine, but I guess the patient needed it. Sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick. Don't lose faith. I'm convinced that the only thing that kept me going was that I loved what I did. You've got to find what you love. And that is as true for your work as it is for your lovers. Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it. And, like any great relationship, it just gets better and better as the years roll on. So keep looking until you find it. Don't settle.

我可以非常肯定,如果我不被Apple开除的话, 这其中一件事情也不会发生的。这个良药的味道实在是很苦,但是我想病人需要这个药。有些时候, 生活会拿起一块砖头向你的脑袋上猛拍一下，不要失去信仰。我很清楚唯一使我一直走下去的，就是我做的事情令我无比钟爱。你需要去找到你所爱的东西。对于工作是如此, 对于你的爱人也是如此。你的工作将会占据生活中很大的一部分。你只有相信自己所做的是伟大的工作, 你才能怡然自得。如果你现在还没有找到, 那么继续找、不要停下来，只要全心全意的去找, 在你找到的时候，你的心会告诉你的。就像任何真诚的关系, 随着岁月的流逝只会越来越紧密。所以继续找，直到你找到它，不要停下来！ 
　　 
My third story is about death. When I was seventeen I read a quote that went something like, if you each day as if it was your last, some day you'll most certainly be right. [laugh] It made an impression on me. And since then, for the past 33 years, I've looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself, if today were the last day of my life, would I wanna do what I am about to do, today? And whenever the answer has been no for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something. Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool that I've ever encountered make the big choices in life. 

我的第三个故事是关于死亡的。当我十七岁的时候, 我读到了一句话:"如果你把每一天都当作生命中最后一天去生活的话,那么有一天你会发现你是正确的。"这句话给我留下了一个印象。从那时开始,过了33 年,我在每天早晨都会对着镜子问自己:"如果今天是我生命中的最后一天, 你会不会完成你今天想做的事情呢？"当答案连续多天是"No"的时候, 我知道自己需要改变某些事情了。"记住你即将死去"是我一生中遇到的最重要箴言。它帮我指明了生命中重要的选择。

Because almost everything, all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure these things just fall away in the face of death. Leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you're going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to loose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart. About a year ago, I was diagnosed with cancer. I had a scan at seven:30 in the morning and it clearly showed a tumor on my pancreas. I didn't even know what a pancreas was. The doctors told me this was almost certainly a type of cancer that is incurable and that I should expect to live no longer than three to six months. My doctor advised me to go home and get my affairs in order, which is doctors code for prepare to die. It means to try and tell your kids everything. You thought you'd have the next ten years to tell them in just a few months. It means to make sure everything is buttoned up, so that it will be as easy as possible for your family. It means to say your goodbyes. I live with that diagnosis all day. Later that evening, I had a biopsy where they stuck an endoscope down my throat, through my stomach and into my intestines. 因为几乎所有的事情, 包括所有的荣誉、所有的骄傲、所有对难堪和失败的恐惧,这些在死亡面前都会微不足道。我看到的是留下的真正重要的东西。你有时候会思考你将会失去某些东西, "记住你即将死去"是我知道的避免这些想法的最好办法。如果你清空一切, 你没有理由不去跟随自己内心的声音。大概一年以前, 我被诊断出癌症。我在早晨七点半做了一个检查, 检查清楚的显示在我的胰腺有一个肿瘤。我当时都不知道胰腺是什么东西。医生告诉我那很可能是一种无法治愈的癌症, 我至多还能活三到六个月的时间。我的医生叫我回家, 然后整理好我的一切, 那是医生对临终病人的标准程序。那意味着你将要把未来十年对你小孩说的话在几个月里面说完.；那意味着把每件事情都安排好, 让你的家人会尽可能轻松的生活；那意味着你要说"再见了"。我拿着那个诊断书过了一整天，那天晚上我作了一个活切片检查，医生将一个内窥镜从我的喉咙伸进去,通过我的胃, 然后进入我的肠子, 
Put a needle into my pancreas, and got a few cells from the tumor. I was sedated, But my wife, who was there, told me that when they viewed the cells under a microscope, the doctors start crying, because it turned out to be a very rare form of pancreatic cancer that is curable with surgery. I had the surgery and thankfully I'm fine now. [sound]. This was the closest I've been to facing death and I hope it's the closest I get for a few more decades. Having lived through it I can now say this to you with a bit more certainty than when death was a useful but purely intellectual concept. 用一根针在我的胰腺上的肿瘤上取了几个细胞。我当时是被麻醉的，但是我的妻子在那里, 后来她告诉我，当医生在显微镜下观察这些细胞的时候他们开始尖叫, 因为这些细胞最后竟然是一种非常罕见的可以用手术治愈的胰腺癌症细胞。我做了这个手术, 现在我痊愈了。那是我最接近死亡的时候, 我希望这也是以后的几十年最接近的一次。从死亡线上又活了过来,相对于以前只把死亡只当成一 种想象中的概念，我现在可以更肯定一点地对你们说： 

>> No one wants to die, even people who want to go to heaven don't wanna die to get there. 
没有人愿意死, 即使人们想上天堂, 也不会为了去那里而死。
>> [laugh]. 

>> And yet, death is the destination we all share, no one has ever escaped it and that is as it should be, because death is very likely the single best invention of life, it's life's change agent, it clears out the old to make way for the new. Right now the new is you. But someday not too long from now, you will gradually become the old and be cleared away. Sorry to be so dramatic, but it's quite true. Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma, which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your voice. 但是死亡是我们每个人共同的终点。从来没有人能够逃脱它。也应该如此。因为死亡就是生命中最好的一个发明。它将旧的清除以便给新的让路。你们现在是新的, 但是从现在开始不久以后, 你们将会逐渐的变成旧的然后被送离人生舞台。我很抱歉这很戏剧性, 但是这十分的真实。你们的时间很有限, 所以不要将他们浪费在重复其他人的生活上。不要被教条束缚,那意味着你和其他人思考的结果一起生活。不要被其他人喧嚣的观点掩盖你真正的内心的声音。
And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary. [sound] When I was young, there was a amazing publication called the Whole Earth Catalog, which was one of the bibles of my generation. It was created by a fellow named Stewart Brand, not far from here in Menlo Park, and he brought it to life with his poetic touch. This was in the late 60's, before personal computers and desktop publishing. So it was all made with typewriters, scissors and Polaroid cameras. It was sort of like Google in paperback form, 35 years before Google came along. It was idealistic, overflowing with neat tools and great notions. Stewart and his team put out several issues of the Whole Earth Catalog. And then, when it had run its course, they put out a final issue. It was the mid-1970's, and I was your age. On the back cover of their final issue was a photograph of an early morning country road. The kind you might find yourself hitchhiking on if you were so adventurous. 
还有最重要的是, 你要有勇气去听从你直觉和心灵的指示——它们在某种程度上知道你想要成为什么样子，所有其他的事情都是次要的。当我年轻的时候, 有一本叫做"整个地球的目录"振聋发聩的杂志，它是我们那一代人的圣经之一。它是一个叫Stewart Brand的家伙在离这里不远的Menlo Park编辑的, 他象诗一般神奇地将这本书带到了这个世界。那是六十年代后期, 在个人电脑出现之前, 所以这本书全部是用打字机,、剪刀还有拍立得照相机编辑的。有点像用软皮包装的google, 在google出现三十五年之前：这是理想主义的，其中有许多灵巧的工具和伟大的想法。Stewart和他的伙伴出版了几期的"整个地球的目录",当它完成了自己使命的时候, 他们做出了最后一期的目录。那是在七十年代的中期, 我正是你们的年纪。在最后一期的封底上是清晨乡村公路的照片（如果你有足够冒险精神的话，你就可以自己找到这条路。）

Beneath it were the words, stay hungry, stay foolish. It was their farewell message as they signed off. Stay hungry, stay foolish. And I've always wished that for myself. And now as you graduate to begin anew I wish that for you. Stay hungry. Stay foolish. Thank you all very much. So stay hungry, stay foolish. And I think the other key line in that speech was, your time is limited. Don't waste it living someone else's life. If there are only two things that you remember from this class, I think you can't do much better than those two. 在照片之下有这样一段话："求知若饥，虚心若愚。"这是他们的告别语。"求知若饥，虚心若愚。"我总是希望自己能够那样,现在, 在你们即将毕业，开始新的旅程的时候, 我也希望你们能这样：求知若饥，虚心若愚。谢谢你们。我觉得这段演讲中最重要的是时间是有限的，不要浪费时间去过别人的人生，如果这门课只有两件事你会记住，我觉得不可能是其他两件事。
So the final thing I'd like you all to do is to take a moment with your group, and think about what you've learned in the class, and what you might want to, remember and convey to the other students. So we'll be talking about this a bit more in class. And so the final three points that I want to leave you with, to kind of summarize what we've talked about in class are, first of all try to develop a mind set of turning big problems into big opportunities. Second. The entrepreneurial process is a continuous process of developing a hypothesis, testing it, and then iterating. So it's a process of experimentation, but it's not mindless experimentation. 
我希望你们做的最后一件事是和你的队友抓住最后的时间思考一下你从这门课学到了什么，你希望记住的和传达给你的同学的是什么。我们会在课堂上稍微谈一谈。我最后想要留给你们的三点是，这也是对这门课的一个总结，养成一种思维方式，就是把问题转化为机会；要去做调研，但是不要一直在脑中调研。
It's got to be experimentation with something in mind that you want to learn. And that's why it's important to think about what hypothesis you are testing. So experiment, but experiment with learning in mind. And then finally do stuff to one and two with great people. Life is too short, and if you work with great people that will also tend to open up other opportunities for you subsequently. Regardless of whether this particular venture or this particular company works out. Try and work with people who you'd want to remain as lifetime connections. Lastly, you might think about what you've learned in this class about your entrepreneurship style. Are you the type that's really suited to go out and start a brand new company from scratch? Or are you better off thinking entrepreneurially within a large company, which is something the world certainly needs as well. Perhaps your entrepreneurship style is in a certain sector, or is in academia. You want to think a little bit about what you have learned from the class, and what you've experienced, and what that might shed light on in terms of your entrepreneurship style. 它应该是你脑中想到的你要去学习的调研方式。这就是为什么你有一个猜想很重要。所以实验，但是脑中要有学习的过程。然后，和一到两个伟大的人一起工作。生命很短暂，如果你和这些伟大的人一起合作，他们会给你开创随之而来的机会和可能，不管这个公司到底行不行得通。和那些你想保持终生友谊的人一起工作。最后，你应该想一想通过这门课对你的创业风格有什么影响？你是那种走出去从零开创一个新品牌的人吗？或者你更适合在一个大公司的某一个部门用创业者的思路去思考？这当然也是我们这个世界需要的。或者你的创业风格是在学术界。你应该想一想你从这门课到底学到了什么？经历了什么？这门课到底对你
的创业风格带来了哪些启发？
So that's it, I'll leave you with these three main points that essentially encapsulate the class. I hope you all have enjoyed this. I have really had a great thrill teaching you all, and I look forward to seeing what you all can do. Thank you very much. And so finally, for the Stanford students, you'll making your final presentations in class, and for the online students, you'll be recording your presentations and uploading them somewhere on the web. And just like we did previously, posting them onto the forum, watch each other's presentations, vote up the better ones, and I'm excited to see what you all have been able to do during the course of class. 

这就是这节课，我会把这三点留给你和你的同学去想。我希望你们都很享受它。我教授这门课真的很开心。我期待看到你们做出的成果。谢谢。最后，斯坦福的学生，你们要在课上做陈述，线上的学生，你要录下你的陈述然后上传到网上，就像我们之前做的那样，把它贴到论坛上，去看别人的陈述，给你喜欢的投票，我期待看到你们所有人的成果。
