Hello, and welcome back to E145 Technology Entrepreneurship.
In this video, I'm going to start the series on
entrepreneurial sales and marketing,
[inaudible], and so a key theme of these videos is going to
be that, the companies that last, the companies that are
enduring do more than just satisfy customers, they must
constantly amaze them.
[inaudible] So these videos are going to be broken down
into, two sections. The first is going to talk about
entrepreneurial marketing And the fact that in
entrepreneurial firms, basically you're either creating a
product or you're helping to sell it. The other section is
going to take this market analysis and positioning that we've done and, as a first step, and use that to inform how we
go about, what they call go to market strategies.

大家好，欢迎来到E145科技创业。在这一节课中，我们进入初创企业销售和市场系列，
这是这个系列的主题。那些持续发展的公司不只是单纯的满足顾客，他们必须一直让客户（对自己的产品和服务）惊艳。

这些视频会分为两部分，第一部分会谈谈创业企业的市场。在一个初创企业中，基本上，
要么你是在创造一个产品，要么你在帮着卖产品；第二部分会对这个市场做分析和定位，这是第一步，用这个分析来
指导方向，他们称此为市场策略。


So, this is how you're actually going to do the marketing
and make the sales and actually sell the product. And so
there's a first step that we're gonna talk about, which is
creating your value proposition, understanding who your
target customers are Positioning your product within the
market. And then once you've done that analysis and
understood that step of it, that's then going to inform how
you go about marketing itself, and your go to market
strategy. And so, and step one we have opportunity
recognition and market analysis so as we been doing in the
class, you must identify a market need, and understand that
size and the growth potential of this market and so this is
going to be a key step in your OAP presentations and
projects that you're doing for the class. Once you've done
that then you can use market as a strategy to create demand.
So we'll start out with some definitions. First of all, we
have the total available market.

所以，这就是你怎么去做市场，做销售，然后卖产品。所以我们要谈的第一步是，创造你的核心价值，
弄清楚谁是你的目标用户，在市场上找准你的产品定位。一旦你完成了这个市场分析，想清楚了（实现）它的步骤，
然后就开始去做市场，去制定市场策略。所以，第一步，你发现机会，并且去做分析，像我们在课上说过的那样，你必须了解市场需求，了解市场的大小以及发展的空间，这将会是你的OAP陈述中的重要的一步，也是你要在这门课上完成的项目报告中的重要部分。一旦你们完成了这些，你就可以利用市场策略去制造需求。所以我们要从一些概念开始。首先，我们有整个的可用市场。



This is if everyone who can possibly purchase your product
were to buy, how many dollars will that represent, What's
the total available market Obviously, you're not going to
capture this total market because this is the universe of
100 percent of the possible sales you can make. The served
available market is how many of these customers can I reach
with the sales channel that I am going to be using. So once
you've narrowed down a bit more, are you going to be
targeting these people through a certain website, or is
there a certain group that you can actually reach through
you sales channel, who could potentially buy from you.

这指的是所有那些有可能买你的产品的人，这又意味着多少钱的收入？整个可用的市场是什么？
很明显，你不可能抓住所有的这部分市场，因为这意味着你会得到100%的潜在市场。
可供的市场是指，所有通过销售渠道可以够的到的客户。所以，一旦你将范围缩小了一点，
你是会通过一个网站接触到你的客户呢？还是通过你的销售渠道接触到一些潜在可能购买你产品的人？


This is the served available market. And then finally we
have, what's called the target market, And so the target
market is people who are the most likely to buy. So this
might be people between a certain set of ages. It might be a
certain demographic. You need to do some research, talk to
some groups of potential customers, and find out how can you
identify those within the served available market that are
actually your target market, or the most compelled to
purchase your product. So let me give you an example of this
from my own experience. Many years ago I traveled to India
and stayed with a family that was suffering from drought.
And so this spurred me to find some solution to this
problem, where their corn crop was, extremely limited due to
this drought. And so I teamed up with a biology faculty
member Duke and we put together a board of advisers.

这就是可供的市场。最后一个概念是，目标市场，这是指那些最可能买你产品的那些人。
这可能是在某个年龄阶段的人，或者某个地域的人。你需要做些研究，和一些潜在客户聊，
然后去想如何从可供市场客户中找到这些目标客户，或者是那些最想买你产品的人。
让我给你一个我自己的例子，很多年前我去印度，我呆的那个家庭一直受到干旱的困扰。
这启发了我去找解决玉米严重缺水这个问题的办法。
回来后我和Duke的一个生物教授等人组建了一个团队还有顾问团。

This board of advisers was instrumental in
helping us do our market analysis because they were the ones
who introduced us to the people who could give us the
numbers and the figures that we needed to calculate the
market size and growth potential. And so the product was a
new variety of corn, which through some genetic engineering
techniques could be grown in extremely dry conditions. First
we started with a bottom up analysis and then we did a kind
of top down analysis. And so, we started out with the total
world seed industry, which is about 13.5 billion dollars. We
then narrowed this down to what we could target via our
sales channels, and the initial market was gonna be the U.S.
Market. And so, while the main product we wanted to get to
was a drought resistance product, we decided to initially
start, based on conversations with customers, with a root-
worm damage product. And so, root-worm is an insect that
damages the roots of corn.

这个顾问团帮助我们做市场分析，因为他们介绍了一些可以提供给我们数据的人，
这些数据可以帮助我们计算市场大小以及增长潜力。我们的产品是一种新品种的玉米，
它通过生物工程技术可以在干旱的环境中生长。首先，我们从一个自下而上的分析开始，
然后我们又做了一个从上而下的分析。我们从全球种子市场着手，这大约是一个135亿美金的市场。
然后通过我们的销售渠道，我们把范围缩小到我们的目标市场，最初的市场是美国。
虽然，我们最主要的产品是一种耐旱作物，但我们最终决定，这是根据与客户的谈话做出的决定，
这些客户需要一种克服植物根部虫害的产品。根部虫害是一种吃掉植物根部的害虫。


And so, we looked at how much customers were currently
paying on insecticides to deal with the root-worm product.
And so, in this bottom-up analysis we looked at, there's,
overall 200 million dollars spent on insecticides, on
fifteen million acres in the US. So insecticides
expenditures turn out to be about $40, this should be per
bag, not per acre, of insecticide, Because one bag can cover
three acres. And so, we projected that we could. Because
this is a new product, that our product could be priced at
perhaps 50 percent of the current product. And so, rather
than charging $40 a bag, we were, Talking with customers, we
thought we could charge $twenty a bag and get a fair number
of them to switch over. So if they're already paying $40 per
acre, we're, we're going to, charge them 50 percent of that.
And then that twenty dolars that we would be getting we
would have to split with the seed companies that would
actually license the IP and produce the seed. And so
Sundance Genetics would be collecting about $ten per bag.
And so we projected that we could reach sales of about 6,
000,000 bags after the third year. So 6,000,000 bags times
$ten per bag would wind up being about $60,000,000. We also
calculated this in terms of the total damage that comes from
corn root worm, so this is 1.2 billion.

所以，我们去看有多少客户现在会为植物根部害虫的杀虫剂产品付钱。所以，在这个自下而上的分析中，我们可以看出，
大约有2，000，000，000美金花在这种杀虫剂上，在美国150，000，000英亩的土地上。所以花费在每包，而不是每英亩上的钱是40美金。因为一包杀虫剂可以用在3英亩的土地上，所以我们认为我们可以做到。因为这是一种新产品，我们的产品可能是现在市面上产品一半的价格。所以，我们就和客户谈，每包给他们20美金，这样就有一批客户愿意尝试我们的新产品。如果他们现在为每亩花费40美金，我们只要他们一半的价格。我们得到的那20美金，会和种子公司分，他们负责执照和生产种子。所以，Sundance Genetics（我们的公司）会得到差不多一包10美金。
我们的销售在三年后会达到6，000，000袋，所以6，000，000乘以10美金每袋是60，000，000美金。加上另一个玉米虫害的产品，这样大约是120，000，000美金。


Framers, told us that they are willing to pay about 50
percent of their anticipated gains. And, so this is...
Leaves us with a potential market of 600,000,000. So we
estimated that we might get somewhere between ten and 22
percent of this market by the third year of sales. Which
again will give us about 60,000,000 dollars potential
revenue. We also looked at comparable products and so BT is
a comparable product in the corn industry which deals with
corn bore, which is a different insect that attacks corn.
And so this turned out to be about a 200 million dollar
market and farmers and industry experts told us that root
worm control is about three times bigger market than corn
borer and so three times 200 million again that gives us a
600 million dollar market. And so it's good if you can
calculate your market in different ways and through
different methods and arrive at consistent estimates, and
that you can also back up these market estimates with real
world data from actual people in the industry, and
customers.

农民们告诉我们，他们想要这些只有一半价钱的种子。所以，这给了我们600，000，000美金的潜在市场。
所以我们估算出我们可能会在第三年的时候得到这个市场的10%-22%份额，这意味着60，000，000美金的可能收入。
我们也比较了同类产品。BT是一个玉米市场上的同类产品，主要解决另外一种危害玉米生长的害虫。
他们每年有200，000，000美金的市场。农民和行业专家告诉我们，我们的防虫害产品的市场需求会比他们的大三倍。
所以3乘以200，000，000就是600，000，000美金的市场。如果你可以通过不同的方法计算你的市场大小并得到差不多一致的数字那是很好的。你的这些数据也可以得到来自实际情况，比如行业或者消费者的支持。

So you want to try and be finding market opportunities that
are somewhere between, I don't know, $500 million and a
billion dollar market opportunity and you also want markets
that are growing quickly. So from markets only growing at
two percent per year, that's a lot less interesting than if
the market is growing at ten percent or at twenty percent
per year or even more and so you are a large and fast
growing market. So what is it that makes marketing and sales
so challenging in a high growth venture? Part of it is that
customers are skeptical. A large portion of customers don't
want to adopt something unless they know for sure it's gonna
provide them with benefits. So this brings us back again to
the crossing the casa model of entrepreneurship. So you have
some initial innovators who are willing to try your product.
You have some visionaries and early adopters who are willing
to give it a try. And then it can become more difficult to
break into the pragmatists and into the larger portions of
the market. And so this is where the chasm comes in that we'
re trying to cross, Is to get into this sort of main part of
the market.

所以，你想要通过尝试找到一个500，000，000到1，000，000，000美金的市场机遇，
并且你希望这是一个持续增长的市场。所以，如果这个市场每年以2%的速度增长，那你一定认为一个年增长
10%或者20%甚至更多的市场更能引起你的兴趣，因为那将会是一个更大，增长更快的市场。
那么对于那些拥有快速增长市场的公司，他们面临的挑战又是什么呢？一部分原因是消费者的不确定心理。
大部分消费者在不确定产品真的好之前不想要使用。所以这再次把我们带回了创业企业casa模式的十字路口。
你有一些最初的创新者希望尝试新产品，你有一些有眼光的和早期的用户想要尝试，但是对一些实用主义者和
市场上的大多数人来说，想要突破这些人相对困难。这是我们要跨越的鸿沟，要切入这部分市场。



So how does a start up cross the chasm. One strategy is to
put all of your eggs in one basket. So rather than
diversifying and trying to appeal to everyone, you target a
particular market segment. And once you've targeted that
particular market segment, you wanna give them something
that's really going to thrill them. That's gonna satisfy
them enough that they're going to be willing to be a
reference customer and convince other people that they
should give the product a try as well. And so how are you
going to segment your market?

那么一个创业企业如何跨越这个鸿沟呢？一个策略就是把所有的鸡蛋放在一个筐里。
不要试图多样化迎合不同的人，你只是以一部分人为目标。一旦你找到了那部分人，
你要给他们真正让他们兴奋的东西。你要让他们的需求得到最大的满足，他们就会成为
你的产品的推荐人，说服其他人试用你的产品。那么你又该怎么划分市场呢？


This can be in different ways, depending on whether you're
doing a business to consumer product or a business to
business product. And so, if you're targeting consumers, you
might segment based on age, gender, income, brand loyalty.
If you're targeting businesses, you might focus on a certain
industry type, or companies with a certain range of
employees of a certain size. Or companies that might be
willing to give you a certain order size. So one example of
how to segment markets comes from Pedigree pet foods in
Great Britain. So they looked at their customers of,
according to different roles that the dog played in the
family. So it could be a family member, in which case this
would be a premium segment of the market. They have a
certain brand for that known as Chum, and they were able to
charge a premium price based on the fact that these people
saw the dogs as such an important member of the family. On
the other end of the spectrum, you had people who just saw
the dog as, as an animal. So it was less a member of the
family. They then name this the economy segment. And had a
separate brand which they charged a lower price for to
target this segment of the market.

这可以有很多种不同的方法，取决于你是直面消费者还是公对公。如果你直面消费者，
你可能需要根据年龄，性别，收入，品牌忠诚度来划分。如果是公对公，可能需要根据行业来分，
或者是根据企业的员工范围或者企业大小，也可能根据公司给你的单的大小。
关于如何将市场分类我会给出英国Pedigree宠物食品的例子。他们根据狗在家庭中的不同角色将消费者分类，
狗可能是消费者的一个家庭成员，那这些消费者就是他们的高端客户，针对这部分市场，他们有一个叫Chum的牌子，他们认为这些消费者把狗看的很重要，所以愿意给狗花相对较多的钱，所以是他们的高端/优先客户。另一方面，
另一极的人把狗只看做是一种动物，而不是家庭成员，他们称这部分人为经济型。与此相对应，
他们有另外一个品牌，用相对较低的价格去接触这部分客户。


You might also create a new segment. The dog is a substitute
child in which case you might have a super premium segment
of the market and a super premium brand which as you might
expect you can charge an extra premium for. And so, You want
to create some kind of profile of the targets segments of
the market or the target customer that you are thinking
about pursuing. You have to really know this customer well,
how they think about your product why they use it the way
they do, why they wanna purchase this product as opposed to
some different one. And so this super premium strategy
turned out to be very effective for Pedigree and four years
later they had a ten percent share of the total dog food
market and the super premium segment did especially well. So
what do you think is the single most important concept when
you're thinking about your marketing strategy? To me this is
your positioning sometimes this is known as your elevated
pitch. So I wanna give you a couple of examples here.

你也可能会创建一个新的市场群。可能会有一部分家庭把狗当做孩子养，这可能会是更优先的客户群，
与此相对应一个更高端的品牌，你可以收这些人更多的钱。所以，你应该创建一些目标市场群/客户的档案，
这是你未来可能追逐的群体。你要非常了解这些客户，他们怎么想你的产品，为什么他们会用，
为什么他们买你的产品而不是其他同类产品。所以这种超级优先级客户的策略对Pedigree非常有效，
4年以后他们的产品占到了整个狗食品行业10%，他们的超级优先客户群表现尤其突出。
所以，在市场分类上最重要的一点，你认为是什么？在我看来，你的定位要拉开区间。下面，我再给你们一些例子。


First comes from a Guy Kawasaki's horizontal analysis. So he
recommends filling in the blanks in these statements. For
who the target customer is, who have some need, the product
or service name is in this category and provides this
certain benefit. So I think, for a minute if you can fill in
the blanks in these senses with your in venture. The second
way to go about this is more vertically, is to think about
the potential alternatives. And so the alternative
positioning statement that you can make is, unlike our
primary competitor, our product, and then whatever your
primary source of differentiation is from that competitor.
So again, think through in your own ventures, what this
statement would be for you. And so positioning has to happen
before demand creation, otherwise you don't know through
what mechanisms or through what channels to direct your
advertising and your marketing. And so this positioning is
then going to drive the strategies that you use. So whether
its promotion and communication, branding, you're pricing
and how you're going to charge consumers money, or your
particular sales and distribution channels, this is going to
depend on the target segment of the market that you're going
after. And so you need to talk with enough of these
potential customers to understand exactly what channels that
you should use to advertise to them.

第一个例子是Guy Kawasaki的水平分析。他推荐这样切入一个市场空隙。对于那些目标客户，
针对他们的具体需求，你的产品或者服务的名字就做一个同类的，满足此类需求，
你的公司应该先去填补这个空白。第二种方法是纵向的，去想一些可能的替换选择，这个的意思就是，
不和你的主要竞争对手做同样的事，你的产品要和你的对手的产品不一样，不管哪方面不一样。
所以，再次思索你的公司，这对你有什么意义？市场定位要在需求创建之前，否则你不知道要用什么策略
或者通过何种渠道去引导你的广告宣传和市场。这个定位直接决定了你接下来用何种策略。不管是推广还是传播，
品牌，定价，以何种方式收取客户费用，还有你的销售技巧，分销渠道，这都是由未来你在市场中定位的目标群决定的。
所以你需要和这个群体中足够多的人聊，弄清楚到底用怎样的渠道去把产品推给他们。


If they read particular blogs, you might look at those. Or
if they tend to go to WalMart. Or you might look at
partnering with WalMart to place a product there. So that's
it for this video, in the next video I'll talk more about
these go to market strategies and how you turn your
positioning into sales and marketing.

如果他们读某一个博客，你应该去看这个博客；如果他们更常去沃尔玛，你应该和沃尔玛合作，
把产品放到那；这就是这节课的内容，下节课，我们会谈谈市场上的策略，以及如何把你的目标定位转化为销售和市场。
