[00:00:01]
In this video, I'll be talking about seeking investors in an emerging or developing economy. My first strategy that I wanna talk about is not need investors in the first place, as it's certainly possible to avoid having to seek external investors and still build a successful business. So that first step in the strategy is to save up the funding that you need in the every beginning from your own savings, all right?

[00:00:33]
So you might delay getting started with the business or you might continue to work part time while you are working on your new business in the evenings or weekends. And this will allow you to fund a good portion of your business from your personal savings in the begining.

[00:00:50]
Second strategy here is to choose your co-founders carefully, and to pick co-founders who have also managed to save up some significant funds that they can invest in the business as well. So having a larger co-founding team, and choosing co-founders who can invest in the business is a great strategy as well.

[00:01:14]
Third strategy here, I'm gonna spend a few minutes talking about in a moment, is to bootstrap the business through generating your own revenues. And then the final strategy is to raise funding from friends and family. In terms of bootstrapping, the first thing to consider, is to chose an entrepreanual opportunity, or a industry, where bootstrapping is feasible.

[00:01:42]
So this is gonna be an opportunity where the initial cost are quite low, and where there's a high willingness to pay by customers. So when at all possible, you want to try to get your customers to pay you up front. If there's a choice or an ability to negotiate between having your customers pay you at the end.

[00:02:06]
Or to pay you up front before work is done, you want to always negotiate for being paid up front. This is gonna really help your cash flow when you're bootstrapping. Then, the next thing is that you want to take every opportunity to keep your costs very low. It's much easier to bootstrap when you have very low fixed costs and, and very low variable ongoing costs in your business.

[00:02:35]
Another strategy is to try to find large company partners large companies they might be, they might be an actual partner, they might be a customer. You can sometimes negotiate with them to help, to get them to fund part of your business. Or to get them to help with some key resources to help keep your costs down.

[00:02:59]
Second strategy if you can't completely bootstrap on your own and, personal savings of your co-founders and yourself are not sufficient, is to approach wealthy individuals. So these are sometimes called Angel Investors, these are high in net worth individuals. So the first step is to identify some of these wealthy individuals, and you want to particularly look for those that have made money in your industry or in a related industry, because they're gonna have the Contacts, and the experience to be able to help you with your business.

[00:03:38]
Second step is to calculate how much funding you need to either become profitable or to make it to the next milestone. The third step is to calculate the payback period for the investor's investment, determine how much profit you need to provide them in order for them to be willing to invest.

[00:04:01]
And finally, Step 4 is to get a warm introduction from a trusted friend of the investor. So Step 5 is the pitch. You wanna create a short, well-polished pitch for the investor, and you want to make sure to include the following information. You want to include how much money you're seeking to raise, with the primary purpose the money will be used for, that might be marketing, expanding the business, buying equipment.

[00:04:33]
You wanna figure out how much money the investor can expect to make out of this, and over what time period. And then finally, you wanna be clear about how the investor will get their money back exactly. So it's important to understand the investor's mindset. The investor is most interested in three things.

[00:04:54]
How much money you are looking for from them? How much they can expect to make from this investment? And how many years it will be before they get their money back plus their profit? The investors looking at a number of different investment opportunities. They might be looking at start-ups to invest in, but they also might be looking at public stocks or at real estate to invest in.

[00:05:17]
And so, you wanna provide a favorable return or profit for the investor with a short of a payback period as possible in order to be competitive with these other possible investments that they're looking at. So the returns of the investor. So the from the investor's point of view, they are taking a risk, a risk of losing the money that they invest in you and in exchange for taking this risk of losing their money, investor wants to earn a profit in addition to getting their money back.

[00:05:54]
So you might say something like we will, we plan to return four times your money in the next three to five years. And the more risky your business is, then the longer that payback period, the higher the profit you're gonna have to offer to the investor in order to get them to part with their money.

[00:06:15]
So in emerging economies, often investors receive dividends at the end of the year, dividends are basically a percentage of the company's profits. And the level of dividends, as I mentioned a moment ago, depends on how much they invested and the payback time period. In developed economies, on the other hands, the investors typically earned their returns when there is an acquisition of the company or when the company files for an initial public offering on the stock market.

[00:06:45]
So again, the returns must be competitive with their other investments. So, in a developed economy like the US, the investor might be looking at investing in real estate or investing in public stocks as an alternative to investing in your company. And the case of investing in public stocks the returns over the long term are typically 8 to 10% per year.

[00:07:09]
They're investing in a small risky start up, the investor is taking on a lot more risk and they're not gonna be able to get their money back for a number years. And so they're gonna expect a significantly higher return than the 8 to 10% per year that public stocks offer.

[00:07:27]
Okay, so what do you do when you have trouble raising money? First is try to bootstrap, try to find more customers that are willing to pay. Second is be persistent, most investors that you talk to are going to say no. Third is to increase the size of your list, of new potential investors to talk to.

[00:07:50]
Next option is that you might have to build a bigger and a more experienced founding team. You might have to ask for a smaller amount of money but from a larger number of people. So if you're having trouble raising, let's say $30,000 from one person, perhaps, you might be able to raise $5,000 from six people.

[00:08:14]
The next strategy is to offer a higher return a quicker payback period, and do this by offering a larger share of the revenues or the profits to the investor. Finally, failing all these, you may have to find a new business opportunity that's, either more attractive to investors or where you can bootstrap more effectively.

[00:08:37]
And then another strategy is to go back to working part time or full time until you can either save up the money. Or make enough progress in the business getting new customers to ease the financial burdens. So, I have a long list of common mistakes here that I've seen.

[00:08:58]
Including, leaving out of the pitch how much money you're looking for, what it will be spent on, and the returns to the investor. Looking for investment too early. Trying to raise investment when you could if you were creative, find a way bootstrap. Raising money from inexperienced investors is a big mistake.

[00:09:20]
Offering a return to investors that's too low or a payback period that's too long might make it difficult to find investors. Often entrepreneurs will make the mistake of not practicing their investment pitch enough times to make it smooth and to cover all of the important information. It should be well practiced in answering common questions.

[00:09:43]
So another common mistake is stumbling, when an investor asks an important question about the business. And then finally the biggest mistake, biggest because it hurts your reputation is not being entirely honest or transparent with your investors. There's also long list of ways to succeed in raising money. The first maybe obviously is to not need their money in the first place.

[00:10:07]
Investors love to invest in businesses that are already profitable or close to profitability. Build up a large, customer base of paying customers, or customers that are committed to paying once the product is developed, this goes a long way to convince investors. Have a big network of close colleagues and friends, who you've worked with in the past, and who have made money in the industry.

[00:10:32]
That way you know a lot of potential investors, have a strong founding team, with a track record of success. Practice your investment pitch many times. You might explore potential sources of government funding. Then finally, most importantly, make a lot of progress in building the product and building the business and getting customers.

[00:10:57]
You wanna, while you're doing this, closely track your costs per user and your revenues. So investors love to see traction in the market and a team, that is really quick to execute and makes a lot of progress in the short amount of time.

